RBAC phase one (#4236)
timescale/docs: use-timescale/security/members.md

    - [members]
---

# Role-based access to $PROJECT_LONGs

When you sign up for a [30-day free trial][sign-up], $CLOUD_LONG creates a $PROJECT_SHORT with built-in role-based access. This includes the following roles: 

> - `Owner`: $CLOUD_LONG assigns this role to you when creating your $PROJECT_SHORT. As the `Owner`, you have the full scope of rights to add and delete other users, transfer project ownership, administer $SERVICE_SHORTs, and edit $PROJECT_SHORT settings. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Owner`: $CLOUD_LONG assigns this role to you when your $PROJECT_SHORT is created. As Owner, you can add and delete other users, transfer project ownership, administer $SERVICE_SHORTs, and edit $PROJECT_SHORT settings. 
```

> - `Admin`: the `Owner` can assign this role to other users in the $PROJECT_SHORT. A user with the `Admin` role has the same scope of rights as the `Owner` but cannot transfer project ownership.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Admin`: the Owner assigns this role to other users in the $PROJECT_SHORT. A user with the `Admin` role has the same scope of rights as the `Owner` but cannot transfer project ownership.
```

> - `Viwer`: the `Owner` and `Admin` can assign this role to other users in the $PROJECT_SHORT. A user with the `Viewer` role has limited, read-only access to $CONSOLE_LONG. This means that a `Viewer` cannot modify $SERVICE_SHORTs and their configurations in any way. A `Viewer` has no access to the $DATA_MODE and has read-queries-only access to $SQL_EDITOR. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Viewer`: the Owner and Admin assign this role to other users in the $PROJECT_SHORT. A Viewer has limited, read-only access to $CONSOLE_LONG. This means that a Viewer cannot modify $SERVICE_SHORTs and their configurations in any way. A Viewer has no access to the $DATA_MODE and has read-queries-only access to $SQL_EDITOR. 
```

![Project users in $CONSOLE](https://assets.timescale.com/docs/images/tiger-cloud-console/tiger-cloud-console-project-users-overview.png)

If you have the [$ENTERPRISE $PRICING_PLAN][pricing-plans], you can use your company [SAML][saml]
identity provider to log in to $CONSOLE_SHORT.

<Highlight type="important">

> The user roles for administering $SERVICE_SHORTs in $CONSOLE_LONG and managing data in the underlying database do not overlap. This page describes the user roles available in $CONSOLE_SHORT. For the database-level user roles, see [Role-based access to your data][database-rbac].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$PROJECT_LONG RBAC roles do not overlap with database-level roles for the individual $SERVICE_SHORTs in your $PROJECT_SHORT. This page describes the user roles available in $CONSOLE_SHORT. For the database-level user roles, see [Manage database level user roles][database-rbac].
```

<Procedure>

1.  In [$CONSOLE][cloud-login], click `Invite users`, then click `Add new user`.

> 1.  Type the email address of the person that you want to add, select their role, and click `Add

Reviewer: The screenshot says Invite user

Author: good catch

instructions in the invitation email to join the $PROJECT_SHORT:

- **New $CLOUD_LONG user**:

>     1. In the invitation email, click `Accept Invite`.

Reviewer: Be nice to use tabs for this.

<Procedure>

1.  In [$CONSOLE][cloud-login], click `Invite users`.

1.  Next to the person you want to invite to your $PROJECT_SHORT, click `Resend invitation`.

    ![Resend a user invitation in $CONSOLE](https://assets.timescale.com/docs/images/tiger-cloud-console/tiger-cloud-console-resend-user-invitation.png)

</Procedure>

> ## Change the current $PROJECT_SHORT

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Change your current $PROJECT_SHORT
```

<Procedure>

1. In [$CONSOLE][cloud-login], click the $PROJECT_SHORT name > `Current project` in the top left.

   ![Change project in $CONSOLE](https://assets.timescale.com/docs/images/tiger-cloud-console/tiger-cloud-console-change-project.png)

1. Select the $PROJECT_SHORT you want to use.

You can now manage the users and $SERVICE_SHORTs in this $PROJECT_SHORT.

</Procedure>

## Transfer $PROJECT_SHORT ownership

> Each $PROJECT_SHORT in $CONSOLE has one `Owner`. As the $PROJECT_SHORT owner, you have rights to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each $PROJECT_LONG has one Owner. As the $PROJECT_SHORT Owner, you have rights to
```

> add and delete users, edit $PROJECT_SHORT settings, and transfer the owner role to another user. When you transfer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
add and delete users, edit $PROJECT_SHORT settings, and transfer the Owner role to another user. When you transfer
```

<Procedure>

1. In [$CONSOLE][cloud-login], click `Invite users`.

1. Click `⋮` > `Leave project`, then click `Leave`.

   ![Leave a project in $CONSOLE](https://assets.timescale.com/docs/images/tiger-cloud-console/tiger-cloud-console-leave-a-project.png)

Your $ACCOUNT_SHORT is removed from the $PROJECT_SHORT immediately, you can no longer access this $PROJECT_SHORT.

</Procedure>

## Change roles of other users in a $PROJECT_SHORT

> The `Owner` can change the roles of all other users in the $PROJECT_SHORT. An `Admin` can change the roles of other users except the `Owner`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Owner can change the roles of all users in the $PROJECT_SHORT. An Admin can change the roles of all users other than the Owner.
```

> To change another user's role:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To change the role for another user:
```
